Welcome back.
We've just implemented prepared and append and it should be clear to you why that is an 0 1 operation
for both of these.
We don't really have to loop through anything.
We just had a reference to the tail and the head and we reassigned some values.
Nice and easy.
But now comes the hard part.
What about these wants.
What about lock ups.
Traversals inserts deletes.
I think we should code those as well to fully understand how length lists work this exercise is going
to be a little bit tougher.
But I'm going to give you a heads up that there's going to be some looping involved.
We want to create a insert method in this insert method is going to have an index and a value parameter
because we're going to want to be able to say insert this location this value into the list.
For example if I wanted to say my linked list dot insert and let's say I wanted to insert an index of
two the value ninety nine.
That would mean that if we go back to our example index of 2 we mean 0 1 to right here.
I want to insert ninety nine and have that point to 5 how we go about doing that.
I want to warn you this can get a little tricky and the best way to really think about it is to grab
a piece of paper and a pen and draw out the steps that you should do.
A good way to practice this and make sure you get it right is to use the visual Go website and practice
inserting and see what happens when you do index up to let's say ninety nine I hit go see what happens
here.
You're going to have to code that action.
Did you get that.
Play around with this as you try and code the insert function.
Like I said a little hint that there's going to be some looping and bolt you saw that in the demonstration
or in the animation there was some sort of traversal.
So we're going to have to do some sort of traversal to find the index.
And I also just want to code a quick print list function so that instead of using this way of printing
our list which as it gets deeper and deeper it gets harder and harder to understand.
I'm going to just create a print list function that you should have access to to make sure that your
insert method is working and this print list is simply going to just list are linked list.
But instead of having this ugly print out I'm just going to print it out in an array.
So this is just going to be printed out in an array all we're going to do is say Konst array and this
is going to be NMT aurorae will have a current note variable that will have this thought had.
So the first item in the list and all we're going to do is do a while loop.
Remember this is similar to a for loop.
We're looping but instead we're saying while this is happening while a condition is happening run the
below comments so I'm going to say while current node doesn't equal to.
No as long as there is a current node and we're not pointing to a null terminator in that case just
simply add to the array array of push the current node value.
That's it.
We don't care about the pointers or anything.
We just want to push to the array the value and we want to then update the current node to equal current
node dot next.
So we're going to keep going keep going keep going until the current node is going to be null and which
case we're going to stop again while loops are really really good if we don't really know the length
of our linked list or we want to do something while a condition is met.
So we can just simply return the array here.
Let's see how that would work.
If I do and I'm going to comment out the insert here because we're not going to do that yet I'm going
to just say my linked list not print list.
If I run this there is our list so using the parentless command to check your work see if you can create
this method.
Good luck and I'll see you in the solution video.